                         The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at:
                         https://www.emerald.com/insight/0969-9988.htm




Productivity monitoring in building                                                                                        Productivity
                                                                                                                            monitoring
     construction projects:
      a systematic review
                                      Wesam Salah Alaloul
                 Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
           Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskanda, Malaysia                                                    Received 7 March 2021
                                                                                                                            Revised 19 May 2021
                                          Khalid M. Alzubi                                                                 Accepted 19 May 2021

              Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
     Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskanda, Malaysia and
  Department of Civil Engineering, Al-Balqa’ Applied University, Amman, Jordan
                                        Ahmad B. Malkawi
  Department of Civil Engineering, Al-Balqa’ Applied University, Amman, Jordan
                                       Marsail Al Salaheen
              Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
     Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskanda, Malaysia and
Department of Civil Engineering, Al-Balqa’ Applied University, Amman, Jordan, and
                                   Muhammad Ali Musarat
                 Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
           Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Bandar Seri Iskanda, Malaysia

Abstract
Purpose – The unique nature of the construction sector makes it fall behind other sectors in terms of
productivity. Monitoring construction productivity is crucial for the construction project’s success. Current
practices for construction productivity monitoring are time-consuming, manned and error prone. Although
previous studies have been implemented toward reducing these limitations, a gap still exists in the automated
monitoring of construction productivity.
Design/methodology/approach – This study aims to investigate and assess the different techniques used
for monitoring productivity in building construction projects. Therefore, a mixed review methodology
(bibliometric analysis and systematic review) was adopted. All the related publications were collected from
different databases, which were further screened to get the most relevant based on the Preferred Reporting
Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) criteria.
Findings – A detailed review was performed, and it was found that traditional methods, computer vision-
based and photogrammetry are the most adopted data acquisition for productivity monitoring of building
projects, respectively. Machine learning algorithms (ANN, SVM) and BIM were integrated with monitoring
tools and technologies to enhance the automated monitoring performance in construction productivity. Also, it
was observed that current studies did not cover all the complex construction job sites and they were applied
based on a small sample of construction workers and machines separately.
Originality/value – This review paper contributes to the literature on construction management by
providing insight into different productivity monitoring techniques.
Keywords Productivity monitoring, Construction, Productivity measuring, Monitoring techniques
Paper type Literature review



Data Availability Statement: All data, models, and code generated or used during the study appear in the
                                                                                                                         Engineering, Construction and
submitted article.                                                                                                          Architectural Management
    The authors would like to thank Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS (UTP) for the support provided                        © Emerald Publishing Limited
                                                                                                                                            0969-9988
for this research.                                                                                                     DOI 10.1108/ECAM-03-2021-0211
ECAM   1. Introduction
       The construction industry plays an important role in supporting the economic development
       of any developed or developing country (Sabet and Chong, 2020; Van Tam et al., 2021). It
       contributes to the economy by about 8%–10% on average in different countries (Dixit et al.,
       2019). Construction job sites are dynamic environments that implicate various workers,
       equipment and machines operating simultaneously which make managing such job sites a
       challenging task (Zhang et al., 2017). Monitoring, tracking activities and assuring that the
       whole project meets predicted production rates are the most fundamental duties of a manager
       (Sherafat et al., 2020). The special nature of construction sites makes the use of standard
       industrial monitoring systems unpractical for the construction industry (Navon and Sacks,
       2007). The absence of real-time information hindering managers’ capability to monitor
       schedule, cost and other performance indicators, which reduces their ability to reveal or
       manage the variability and uncertainty inherent in project activities (Zhang et al., 2009).
           Despite the several challenges being faced by the construction industry, productivity is
       one of the most significant problems that cause cost and time overrun (Mahamid, 2013; Princy
       and Shanmugapriya, 2017). Productivity plays a significant role in evaluating the success of
       construction projects which reflects its impact on the construction industry (Mahamid, 2013).
       Also, productivity improvement plays a crucial role in lowering the costs of construction and
       increasing the revenue of the firms (Dixit et al., 2019; Van Tam et al., 2021). Construction firms
       can improve their performance, sustainability and competitive advantages in the market by
       adopting the best standard productivity practices (Marzuki et al., 2012; Sabet and Chong,
       2018). Therefore, productivity issues are described as accepted expanding considerations
       inside the construction sector (Dai et al., 2009) and have been an interesting topic of research
       for the past five decades and that because the productivity growth in construction has lagged
       behind other sectors (Green, 2016).
           Productivity has various definitions provided by several researchers; generally, it is defined
       as the ratio of output to input (Ayele and Fayek, 2019; Dixit et al., 2017; Durdyev and Mbachu,
       2018). Productivity rates are utilized by managers during scheduling to identify project life and
       decrease the cost of the resources (Alinaitwe Mwanaki, 2006; Palikhe et al., 2019). In
       construction projects, productivity improvement will automatically improve its income,
       considering that 30%–50% of the total cost of a construction project is being spent on resources
       (Gunduz and Abu-Hijleh, 2020). Most of the factors that affect construction productivity can be
       improved by monitoring productivity effectively (Konstantinou and Brilakis, 2016). The
       monitoring methods can be divided into two major methods: traditional methods and
       automated methods. The traditional method depends on manual observations and statistical
       methods for collecting and analyzing data of different constructions operations and resources
       (Kim and Kim, 2018; Vahdatikhaki et al., 2015). While automated methods have used new
       technologies and artificial intelligence for monitoring construction operations (Sherafat et al.,
       2020). The current practices of traditional methods for collecting and monitoring data have
       some limitations for construction site monitoring, such as expensive, inaccurate, inefficient and
       time-consuming, which results in a slow flow of information and an inefficient decision making
       (Luo et al., 2018; Naoum, 2015; Navon and Sacks, 2007; Omar et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2015).
           While automated data collection for project performance control enables construction
       activities to be controlled and managed effectively and in real-time (Navon and Sacks, 2007).
       Several techniques like photogrammetry, vision-based, audio-based, tagged-studies and laser
       scanning are performed for automated monitoring of different construction activities,
       workers and machines (Mahami et al., 2019; Sherafat et al., 2020). Efficient productivity
       monitoring helps in assessing a project’s performance and in enabling the identification of
       opportunities for improvement (Pradhan et al., 2011). The selection of practical productivity
       monitoring tools is extremely valuable, which assures the reliability of data collection and
       reduces error probability (Langroodi et al., 2021; Son et al., 2015; Yang et al., 2015). Ineffective
monitoring of construction operations may lead to project failure, whereas effective                    Productivity
monitoring enables timely corrective actions for delayed operations (El-Omari and Moselhi,               monitoring
2011; Kopsida et al., 2015).
    Despite the great efforts by researchers in the field of construction productivity
monitoring to improve the productivity of construction, the construction productivity is still
low and does not improve within the past decades (Green, 2016) compared to the productivity
of the industrial sector, which doubled in the same time (Changali et al., 2015). Also, it is
not improving over time with an annual 0.32% declining rate during the period from 2003 to
2012 (Teicholz, 2013). Furthermore, the construction industry does poorly completing
megaprojects on time and budget; it is estimated that 98 % of megaprojects suffer cost
overruns of more than 30% and 77% of these projects late at least by 40%; poor productivity
is one of the most reasons for this poor records (Changali et al., 2015). Choosing the
appropriate techniques and tools for monitoring will improve construction productivity
(Langroodi et al., 2021; Pradhan et al., 2011; Son et al., 2015; Yang et al., 2015). Therefore, it is
very necessary to know the most appropriate techniques and tools for productivity
monitoring in building construction projects.
    Thus, this study aims to assess and review the knowledge domains of the available studies
for the application of productivity monitoring (tools and techniques) and their implementation
in construction building projects by adopting a mixed review methodology (bibliometric
analysis and systematic review). Providing insight into different productivity monitoring
techniques in building construction is very essential in helping researchers to know the
different tools and techniques performed for data acquisition and analysis, limitations of each
technique, the activities monitored by each technique and the possibility of integrated these
techniques and tools to obtain highly efficient and accurate results. Furthermore, assessing
the effective productivity monitoring tools and techniques in building projects is significant
for construction managers to know the variability and uncertainty in project activities, which
will help them in making effective decisions timely and accurately and that will lead to
reducing costs, making timely corrective actions, reduce errors and project success.

2. Research methodology
A search of the literature was conducted using the systematic approach of the Preferred
Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) protocol guidelines
and combined with bibliometric analysis. PRISMA produces evidence-based outcomes and,
at the same time, enhances the reporting quality of the review with a transparent literature
selection procedure (Moher et al., 2009). Moreover, it has a methodological and analytic
process that is clear and easy to understand (Moher et al., 2015). Bibliometric methods allow
the researchers to base their judgments on aggregated bibliographic data provided by other
researchers who are working in the same field and have represented their viewpoints through
collaboration, citation and writing. Also, bibliometric methods were complemented with
meta-analysis and qualitative structured literature reviews, so a better reviewing and
                                                                
evaluating of scientific literature can be achieved (Zupic and Cater,   2015).
    In this research, a systematic literature review approach was first applied to collect related
information. This was done by isolating the collected papers according to their keywords,
document types, language, etc. Second, the bibliometric analysis was conducted to improve
the prominent research and identify the research trends using quantitative analysis.

2.1 Data acquisition
Based on the systematic review guidelines and the objectives of this study, the first phase was
designed to gather the data in relation to the previous studies on construction productivity
monitoring techniques for building construction projects. A protocol was established for
ECAM                collecting articles by overviewing the studies that have performed different techniques and
                    tools for the productivity monitoring of construction building projects. The study scope was
                    limited to monitoring the productivity of construction building projects publications, English
                    publications and published between 2010 and 2020.
                        2.1.1 Databases and keywords. Four databases were selected to collect the available
                    literature on the productivity monitoring techniques for construction building projects
                    namely Web of Science (WoS), Scopus, Science direct and American Society of Civil
                    Engineers (ASCE); all these databases were frequently adopted by researchers for gathering
                    the literature (Al-Sabaeei et al., 2020; Braun et al., 2019; Hasan et al., 2018; de Oliveira et al.,
                    2019; Ramirez Lopez and Grijalba Castro, 2021). Between these databases, WoS and Scopus
                    databases are the largest citations and abstract database of the peer-reviewed literature that
                    delivers an overview of the world’s research output in the fields of technology, science, etc.
                    (Braun et al., 2019; de Oliveira et al., 2019).
                        The keywords used in this study to identify the most relevant publications regarding the
                    subject matter are: construction productivity, productivity monitoring, monitoring
                    techniques and building projects. In WoS, the searching was performed by using
                    advanced search with the designed keywords query as “TS5((productivity AND
                    (monitoring OR measuring) AND construction) NOT (infrastructure or highway or
                    tunnel))”. The searching provided 976 results, which were refined to 843 results based on
                    the study scope. For the Scopus database, the keywords inquiry was created by applying a
                    combination as “TITLE-ABS-KEY((productiv*) AND ((monitor*) OR (measure*)) AND
                    (building) AND ((construction) OR (project))) AND NOT ((infrastructure) OR (highway) OR
                    (tunnel))”. The searching provided 752 results, which were filtered down to 490 results based
                    on the defined scope. In ScienceDirect, the keywords combination “TITLE-ABS-KEY
                    (productivity) AND (monitoring) AND ((construction) OR (building)) AND NOT
                    ((infrastructure) OR (highway) OR (tunnel))” was used and 170 publications were found,
                    from which 126 publications were selected according to the defined scope. In the ASCE
                    database, the search was performed by “TITLE (productivity AND (monitoring OR
                    measuring) AND construction)” as keywords and 11 results were selected.
                        A total of 1,470 publications were collected under the defined protocol, which were
                    published from 2010 to 2020. Figure 1 shows that researchers’ interest in the issue of
                    productivity monitoring is almost constantly increasing from 2010 to 2020. This confirms the
                    significance of this topic in the construction sector. Also, the highest number of publications
                    (215) was found in 2020, which indicates that the topic still very active and the general trend

                                               250
                                                                                                                                                          215
                                                                                                                                    195        189
                                               200
                        NO. OF PUBLICATTIONS




                                                                                                                         176
                                                                                                              162
                                                                                                                                                                ASCE
                                               150                                                                                                    135
                                                                                                   122                                                          ScienceDirect
                                                                                        102                          106        108        105
                                                                                                          100                                                   Scopus
                                                                      94
                                               100                             85
                                                                                                                                          72                    WOS
                                                                68                                 71                           69
                                                         62                                                                                          58
                                                                      49             53                                                                         Total
                                                                            42      42         43        46         47
                                                50    35        39         38
                                                                    29                                                                                          Linear (Total)
                                                     24       22                                                    23                               22
Figure 1.                                                                                                16                    17         11
                                                     3        7    79      5        7         26                               1          1
Number of
publications over                                0
the years                                            2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
                                                                                YEARS
of the publication is increasing. The maximum data collection was obtained from the Web of                      Productivity
Science (WoS) and Scopus databases.                                                                              monitoring

2.2 Data filtration
This stage was divided into four steps, identification, screening, articles eligibility and
included articles as shown in Figure 2. Where the first step is for identifying the number of
publications from each database. The second step is the screening, where the publications
were screened for duplication, title screening and abstract screening. The duplication was
performed based on the articles with the same titles that got reselected again by other
keyword combinations from the same database or the other databases, and 178 publications
were found common or repeated between databases, which were eliminated. The irrelevant
publications were excluded by performing title and abstract screening. The screening was
conducted, where the irrelevant studies were excluded after reviewing each article for its title,



                      WoS                 Scopus              Science direct           ASCE
                    (n = 843)            (n = 490)              (n = 126)             (n = 11)
   Identification




                                 Records identified through databases searching
                                                   (n = 1470)



                                         Records after duplication check              Records excluded
                                                   (n = 1292)                            (n = 178)
   Screening




                                          Records after irrelevant title              Records excluded
                                              screened (n = 495)                         (n = 797)


                                         Records after abstract screened              Records excluded
                                                    (n = 90)                              (n = 405)
                                                                                     *Irrelevant abstract


                                                                                  Full-text articles excluded
   Eligibility




                                             After assessed Full-text
                                                                                            (n = 56)
                                              articles for eligibility
                                                                                        *Out of scope
                                            Studies included (n = 34)
                                                                                    *no basic correlations
   Included




                        WoS                 Scopus             Science direct           ASCE
                      (n = 20)             (n = 10)               (n = 1)               (n = 3)
                                                                                                                      Figure 2.
                                                                                                                PRISMA flowchart
ECAM                 where a total of 797 irrelevant publications were eliminated. Next, in further checking by
                     reviewing the abstract of each article which led to eliminating 405 irrelevant publications.
                         While in the third step, the eligibility of full text for each article was explored
                     thoroughly for its adopted tools and methodologies, which led to a total of 34 included
                     publications, and 56 publications were excluded. Finally, the included publications number
                     for each database after conducting the previously described filtering processes led to the
                     following summary: 20 studies from WoS, 10 from Scopus, 3 from ACSE and 1 from
                     ScienceDirect as shown in Figure 3.

                     2.3 Data processing and analyses
                     The bibliographic analysis examines the author’s research areas, the paper content and the
                     citation network among other things (Lim and Buntine, 2016). In this paper, the selected
                     publications were examined according to the article source, author keywords and tools used
                     for productivity monitoring. Finally, the map of the selected publications was examined
                     based on the title and abstract to visualize the connections between terms and the most co-
                     occurred terms. a strength, a clear overview and lack of author terms discussion can be
                     provided by this visualization.
                         2.3.1 Publications distribution by year. From Figure 3, during the selected period from 2010
                     to 2020, it can be observed that the trend of publications increasing over time, where the
                     maximum number of publications were found in 2017 and 2020 with eight and seven
                     publications, respectively. One publication was found in 2010, 2012 and 2014, three in 2019,
                     four in 2011 and 2015, and five publications were found in 2018. No publications were available
                     in 2013 and 2016. Also, it is observed that WoS and Scopus are producing the maximum
                     number of research articles related to construction productivity monitoring, and the interest of
                     researchers in productivity monitoring is not lost, it is ascending during the time.
                         2.3.2 Publications distribution by journal/conference. Collected publications were also
                     analyzed for their sources to find the distribution by journal/conference as shown in Figure 4.
                     Among the 34 selected publications, just three publications were selected from three different
                     conferences, while the rest 31 publications were found in journals. Also, it was found that
                     “Journal of Construction Engineering and Management” has the highest number of
                     publications among the selected journals/conferences with six records, then “Automation in
                     Construction”, “Journal of Asian Architecture and Building Engineering” and “Journal of
                     Computing in Civil Engineering” with four, three and two records, respectively. While the rest
                     of the journals/conferences recorded only one result.


                                               9
                                                                                                             8
                                               8
                                                                                                                                                     7
                        NO. OF PUBLICATTIONS




                                               7
                                               6
                                                                                                         5             5                                 ScienceDirect
                                               5
                                                                  4                              4                 4                         4           ASCE
                                               4
                                                              3                                      3                              3                    Scopus
                                               3                                                                                                         WOS
                                                                                             2                                  2                2
                                               2                                                                                                         total
                                                     11   1           1      1     11   11                        1         1           1
Figure 3.                                      1
Number of selected
publications from                              0
databases                                          2010   2011        2012       2014   2015   2017              2018      2019             2020
                                                                                         YEARS
      Journal of Construction Engineering and Management
                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                      6               Productivity
     Journal of Asian Architecture and Building Engineering                               3                                            monitoring
                                                                                  2
              Journal of Civil Engineering and Management                 1
                                                                          1
                   ADVANCES IN CIVIL ENGINEERING                          1
                                                                          1
    JOURNAL OF APPLIED ENGINEERING SCIENCES                               1
                                                                          1
          ISARC 2018 - 35th International Symposium on...                 1
                                                                          1
   IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science                 1
                                                                          1
 International Workshop on Computing in Civil Engineering                 1
                                                                          1
                                             BUILDINGS                    1
                                                                          1
      International Conference on Sustainable Design and...               1                                                                   Figure 4.
                                                                          1                                                                   Number of
   Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management                 1                                                       publications according
                                                                          1
                     Developments in the Built Environment                1
                                                                                                                                   to journal/conference
                                                                                                                                             distribution
                                                              0       1       2       3       4       5           6           7



2.3.3 Publications distribution by the building element. The building activities monitored in the
selected data were analyzed as shown in Figure 5. It can be seen that the masonry works and
formwork were the highest monitored activity among other activities; they have monitored
alone or with other activities in eight articles, which represent about 23.5% of the selected
studies. The second most popular activity among the selected results was the concrete work
that was monitored alone or with other activities in six articles with about 17%. While the
excavations operations and reinforcement activities were monitored in four articles with
about 11.8%, and the worker movements were listed in three articles. Each of the plastering,
curtain walls and construction machines activities were monitored in two articles only. The
rest of the activities were monitored in just one article.
   2.3.4 Publication distribution based on productivity monitoring methods. The methods used
for monitoring productivity in construction were also analyzed. According to Figure 6,
“manual observations and statistical methods” were the most popular methods as it was used
12 times in the results, which means that 35% of the selected studies have used this method,


             masonry works                                                                                    8
                  formwork                                                                                    8
              concrete work                                                               6
      excavation operations                                           4
    reinforcement activities                                          4
        workers movements                                   3
                  plastering                       2
                curtain wall                       2
     construction machines                         2
                   Hoisting              1
                       MEP               1
                crane cycles             1
            design activities            1
                      screed             1                                                                                                      Figure 5.
                      tilling                                                                                                        Activities monitored
                                         1
               False ceiling                                                                                                      distribution among the
                                         1
                                                                                                                                          selected studies
                                0    1         2        3         4           5       6           7       8               9
ECAM                   the building information modeling (BIM) and vision-based methods came in the second place
                       as each of them were repeated in eight times (23.5%) studies. While the artificial neural
                       network (ANN) was repeated four times (11.7%) studies. Photogrammetry and support
                       vector machine (SVM) methods were repeated two times (5.8%). Few studies were performed
                       using the other methods (convolutional neural network, accelerometer-based method,
                       smartphone sensors, GPS and fuzzy set theory, Bluetooth, simulation-based (WebCYCLONE)
                       and Audio Signals) with 2.9%. It is worth noting that these methods were used either alone or
                       in combination with other methods.


                       3. Results and discussion
                       3.1 Bibliometric mapping
                       With the recent growth of information technology, visualization techniques and scientific
                       index, the bibliometric method provides researchers with a tool to visualize and understand
                       the trends and the connections in the literature. The bibliometric examines invisible
                       connections based on bibliographic records of the literature. A co-occurrence keyword
                       analysis, for example, helps reveal methodologies and topics of the research in one research
                       field (Su and Lee, 2010). Bibliometric mapping was performed for keywords analysis to
                       visualize and understand the connections and trends between the selected studies.
                           3.1.1 Keywords analysis. Keywords analysis was conducted using VOSviewer software,
                       which is a freely available software that was developed for viewing and constructing
                       bibliometric maps. VOSviewer pays special interest to the graphical representation of
                       bibliometric maps among other software that is used for bibliometric mapping (van Eck and
                       Waltman, 2010). The primary contents of current studies and research topics in a specific
                       field are represented by keywords. The co-occurrence of keywords shows the inter-
                       closeness among them (Xia et al., 2020). By setting the minimum occurrence of a keyword at
                       two, in the selected 34 publications, 148 keywords were found, with 22 keywords meeting
                       the threshold point. By reading the publications, some keywords that are related to the
                       same meaning in language or logic were combined, such as “Building information
                       modeling” and “BIM”, “artificial neural network” and “artificial neural networks”
                       “ANN”, etc.
                           Figure 7 presents the final visualization of co-occurring keywords. The size of a node
                       reflects a visual representation of the occurrence of a given keyword, and the thickness of the
                       connecting lines indicates the interconnectedness between keywords. The occurrence of the
                       keywords “productivity” and “construction” was the highest with 30 and 24 occurrences,
                       respectively. Also, it can be seen that a large portion of studies studied the relationship
                       between productivity and construction and that indicates the significance of productivity in
                       the construction industry among studies.


                         manual observations, statistical methods                                                 12
                                                             BIM                                    8
                                            vision-based method                                     8
                                     Artificial Neural Networks                         4
                                                photogrammetry                  2
                                 support vector machine (SVM)                   2
                             simulation-based(WebCYCLONE)               1
                                             smartphone sensors         1
                                                        Bluetooth       1
                                   convolutional neural network         1
Figure 6.
                                                    Audio signals       1
Methods distribution              Accelerometer-Based method            1
among the selected                    GPS and fuzzy set theory          1
studies
                                                                    0       2       4       6   8       10   12        14
                                                                                                         Productivity
                                                                                                          monitoring




                                                                                                                 Figure 7.
                                                                                                             Co-occurrence
                                                                                                       mapping of keywords



Table 1 shows a summary of co-occurred keywords with the total link strength between the
keywords. Among the different construction activities, masonry (Arif and Khan, 2020; Bhatti
et al., 2019; Chui et al., 2012; Florez and Cortissoz, 2017; Joshua and Varghese, 2011; Mao et al.,
2018; Ouga et al., 2020) and formwork (Azhar et al., 2020; Bhatti et al., 2019; El-Gohary et al.,



Keywords                                       Occurrences                       Total link strength

Productivity                                       30                                    76
Construction                                       24                                    69
Masonry                                             8                                    20
Formwork                                            6                                    17
Monitoring                                          5                                    18
Concrete                                            5                                    17
BIM                                                 5                                    16
Labor                                               4                                    13
Activity analysis                                   4                                    12
Excavation                                          4                                    11
Columns                                             3                                    13
Fixing steel                                        3                                    12
Management                                          3                                    12
Computer vision                                     2                                     9
Video interpretation                                2                                     9
Artificial neural networks                          2                                     7
Plastering                                          2                                     7
Information technology                              2                                     6
Measurement                                         2                                     6                        Table 1.
Photogrammetry                                      2                                     6                     Summary of
Curtain wall                                        2                                     5            occurrences and links
Work study                                          2                                     5               between keywords
ECAM   2017; Golnaraghi et al., 2019; Lee et al., 2017; Mine et al., 2015) were presented lonely or
       combined with other activities, the most activities monitored for their productivity.


       3.2 Productivity monitoring tools
       Productivity in the construction sector is known as an indicator of the consistency and
       efficiency of construction firms. There have been numerous studies on the effective analysis,
       measurement and monitoring of productivity data, which resulted from the growing interest
       in building productivity (Lee et al., 2014). Monitoring and measuring construction
       productivity are crucial for project success. Also, they can improve the sustainability and
       competitive advantages of construction firms in the market by adopting the best standard
       productivity practices (Marzuki et al., 2012). Most of the factors that affect construction
       productivity can be improved by monitoring productivity effectively (Konstantinou and
       Brilakis, 2016). According to the selected studies, the monitoring methods can be divided
       into two major methods: traditional methods and automated methods. The traditional
       method depends on manual observations and statistical methods for collecting and
       analyzing the productivity data (Kim and Kim, 2018; Vahdatikhaki et al., 2015). While
       automated methods depends on a new technologies and artificial intelligence for monitoring
       different aspects of construction operations (Sherafat et al., 2020). Table 2 shows the studies,
       activities monitored and the methods used in these studies.
           Although traditional methods have some limitations for site monitoring, such as time-
       consuming, operose, missing or incomplete information, resulting in a slow flow of
       information, make effective decision-making difficult, labor-intensive and high expenses
       (Kimoto et al., 2005; Luo et al., 2018; Naoum, 2015; Omar et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2015), they
       have been used in several studies to monitor the productivity of different indoor activities
       (such as tiling, plastering, masonry work, false ceiling boarding and fixing and application of
       screed) and outdoor activities (such as formwork, reinforcement steel activities, MEP,
       concrete work and curtain wall) (Alchaer and Issa, 2020; Azhar et al., 2020; Bhatti et al., 2019;
       Chui et al., 2012; Florez and Cortissoz, 2017; Gouett et al., 2011; Hwang, 2010; Ko and Han,
       2015; Kubeckova and Smugala, 2020; Mao et al., 2018; Mine et al., 2015; Ouga et al., 2020).
           To overcome the limitations in traditional monitoring methods, several studies have made
       valuable attempts by adopting modern technologies and artificial intelligence to monitor,
       measure and analyze construction productivity (Arif and Khan, 2020; Golnaraghi et al., 2019;
       Konstantinou et al., 2019; Petrov and Hakimov, 2019). Nowadays, modern digital technologies
       used in construction monitoring are supporting the user to resolve issues like; time-consuming,
       slow flow of information, labor-intensive and high expenses of collecting data (Petrov and
       Hakimov, 2019). Also, the advent of high storage databases, high-resolution cameras and
       accessibility of the internet has transformed the ongoing construction operations’
       documentation methods into a paradigm shift. As a result, studies in the field of computer
       vision-based techniques have grown increasingly and become popular among researchers to
       monitor construction site activities (Khosrowpour et al., 2014; Luo et al., 2018; Zhu et al., 2016).
           Computer vision is the automated extraction of information from images. Information can
       mean anything from 3D models, camera position, object detection and recognition to
       grouping and searching image content (Solem, 2012). Vision-based techniques combined with
       BIM are used to monitor the productivity of construction activities (such as formwork, crane
       cycles, excavation operations, concrete work, earthmoving, Scaffold installation, slab pour,
       column pour and hoisting activities) (Forsythe and Sepasgozar, 2019; Lee et al., 2014; Liu and
       Golparvar-Fard, 2015; Ren et al., 2017). Although these techniques have achieved many
       improvements in monitoring construction productivity compared to traditional methods, the
       challenging environment of construction sites affects the accuracy of these techniques. The
       accuracy of monitoring construction productivity methods is affected by congestion,
Title                                          Authors              Method                    Activities              Remarks

Cross-validation of short-term productivity    Hwang (2010)         Manual observations and   Concrete work           Time-consuming, not applicable for long
forecasting methodologies                                           statistical methods                               time productivity estimation, labor intensive,
                                                                                                                      not applicable for ongoing operations and
                                                                                                                      slow information flow
An object recognition, tracking and            Gong and Caldas      Vision-based method       Earthmoving,            Good in tracking single object, occlusion
contextual reasoning-based video               (2011)                                         scaffolding, slab,      problem and limited in view
interpretation method for rapid                                                               column pouring and
productivity analysis of construction                                                         hoisting
operations
Activity analysis for direct-work rate         Gouett et al.        Manual observations and   Workers activities      Time-consuming, labor-intensive and slow
improvement in construction                    (2011)               statistical methods                               information flow
A visual monitoring framework for              Heydarian and        Vision-based and BIM      Excavation operations   Limited in view due to the fixed camera
integrated productivity and carbon             Golparvar-Fard
footprint control of construction operations   (2011)
Accelerometer-based activity recognition in    Joshua and           Accelerometer-based       Masonry work            Accuracy of 80% was obtained, attaching
construction                                   Varghese (2011)      method                                            wired accelerometers to the waist of a mason
                                                                                                                      limit the movement of the worker due to the
                                                                                                                      weird sensor attached to the laptop
On-site labor productivity measurement for     Chui et al. (2012)   Manual observations and   MEP and masonry         Time-consuming, labor intensive and slow
sustainable construction                                            statistical methods       work                    information flow
A system model for analyzing and               Lee et al. (2014)    Vision-based method and   Formwork                Limited to the camera view
accumulating construction work crew’s                               BIM
productivity data using image processing
technologies
Applying artificial neural networks for        Heravi and           Artificial neural         Concrete work           Does not take all predicting factors to
measuring and predicting construction-         Eslamdoost           networks and manual                               develop the model which could affect the
labor productivity                             (2015)               observation                                       accuracy of the model
Development of construction performance        Ko and Han           Manual observations and   Curtain wall            Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
monitoring methodology using the               (2015)               statistical methods                               applicable for a large construction site, and
bayesian probabilistic approach                                                                                       slow information flow

                                                                                                                                                       (continued )
                                                                                                                                                             monitoring
                                                                                                                                                            Productivity




          construction
             Table 2.

   used for monitoring

          productivity
  Summary of methods
  Table 2.
                                                                                                                                                              ECAM
Title                                         Authors              Method                    Activities               Remarks

Crowdsourcing construction activity           Liu and              Vision-based method       Concrete work            Obtained 85% accuracy, nonexpert
analysis from jobsite video streams           Golparvar-Fard                                                          annotators from a crowdsourcing
                                              (2015)                                                                  marketplace negatively affect the quality of
                                                                                                                      the assessment results
An observational study on the productivity    Mine et al. (2015)   Manual observations and   Formwork                 Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
of formwork in building construction                               statistical methods                                applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                                                      slow information flow
Fusion of photogrammetry and video            B€ugler et al.       Photogrammetry            Excavation operations    Obtained 90% accuracy, poor visual
analysis for productivity assessment of       (2017)                                                                  conditions created by the occlusion and bad
earthwork processes                                                                                                   weather led to higher errors
Activity analysis of construction             Cheng et al.         Audio signals, support    Construction machines    Applicable only for construction machines
equipment using audio signals and support     (2017)               vector machine (SVM)                               that generate discrete sound patterns during
vector machines                                                                                                       their routine operations and analysis
                                                                                                                      activities of single machines, make it
                                                                                                                      unproper in crowded sites
Engineering approach using ANN to             El-Gohary et al.     Artificial Neural         Formwork, fixing steel   Obtained high accuracy, depending on
improve and predict construction labor        (2017)               Networks, manual                                   factors of productivity to develop the
productivity under different influences                            observation                                        prediction model affect the model due to
                                                                                                                      unstudied factors
Using workers compatibility to predict        Florez and           Manual observations and   Masonry work             Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
labor productivity through cluster analysis   Cortissoz (2017)     statistical methods                                applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                                                      slow information flow
Framework for the validation of simulation-   Han et al. (2017)    Simulation-based          Curtain wall             Time-consuming, not providing real-time
based productivity analysis: focused on                            (WebCYCLONE), manual                               monitoring and the slow flow of information
curtain wall construction process                                  observation
BIM-assisted labor productivity               Lee et al. (2017)    BIM and manual            Formwork                 Time-consuming
measurement method for structural                                  observations
formwork
Construction productivity and ergonomic       Nath et al. (2017)   Smartphone sensors and    Workers movements        Obtained 80% accuracy, costly due to the
assessment using mobile sensors and                                support vector machine                             required wearable sensors attached to each
machine learning                                                   (SVM)                                              worker

                                                                                                                                                      (continued )
Title                                            Authors              Method                     Activities                 Remarks

Automated monitoring of the utilization          Ren et al. (2017)    Vision-based method        Excavation equipment       Fixed camera, limited in view, and occlusion
rate of onsite construction equipment                                                                                       affect the quality of monitoring
Automation of measuring actual                   Alshibani (2018)     GPS                        Excavation work            It also assumes that the tracked fleet consists
productivity of earthwork in urban area, a                                                                                  of trucks of the same size, which may not
case study from montreal                                                                                                    always be true, GPS receivers should be
                                                                                                                            mounted on all trucks, which makes the
                                                                                                                            proposed methodology expensive
Convolutional neural networks: computer          Luo et al. (2018)    The convolutional neural   Reinforcement activities   Achieves an average accuracy of 85%,
vision-based workforce activity assessment                            network, vision-based                                 attention needs to focus on addressing
in construction                                                                                                             occlusions
Using wearable devices to explore the            Mao et al. (2018)    Manual observations,       Masonry work               Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
relationship among the work productivity,                             statistical methods                                   applicable for a large construction site, slow
psychological state and physical status of                                                                                  information flow and costly due to the
construction workers                                                                                                        required wearable sensors attached to each
                                                                                                                            worker
Toward an automated photogrammetry-              Omar et al. (2018)   Photogrammetry and         Columns                    Obtained high accuracy, required a lot of
based approach for monitoring and                                     BIM                                                   fixed cameras for monitoring (12 cameras)
controlling construction site activities
BIM log mining: measuring design                 Zhang et al.         BIM and manual survey      Design productivity        Applicable only for comparing the
productivity                                     (2018)                                                                     production rate between designers within the
                                                                                                                            same level of quality and design excellence
Building construction labor productivity in      Bhatti et al.        Manual observations,       Masonry, fixing steel      Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
arid climate environment                         (2019)               statistical methods        and formwork               applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                                                            slow information flow
Measuring installation productivity in           Forsythe and         Vision-based method        Crane cycles               Fixed cameras, time consuming, manually
prefabricated timber construction                Sepasgozar                                                                 measures and analyses the productivity from
                                                 (2019)                                                                     the registered video
Application of artificial neural network(s) in   Golnaraghi et al.    Artificial neural          Formwork                   Does not take all predicting factors to
predicting formwork labor productivity           (2019)               networks and manual                                   develop the model, which could affect the
                                                                      observation                                           accuracy of the model

                                                                                                                                                              (continued )
                                                                                                                                                                    monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                   Productivity




  Table 2.
 Table 2.
                                                                                                                                                                    ECAM
Title                                         Authors              Method                    Activities                   Remarks

Engineering productivity measurement: a       Alchaer and Issa     Manual observations and   Screed, tiling, plastering   Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
novel approach                                (2020)               statistical methods       and false ceiling            applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                             activities                   slow information flow
A real-time productivity tracking             Arif and Khan        BIM and manual survey     Concreting columns,          The accuracy depends on the quality of
framework using survey-cloud-bim              (2020)                                         concreting slab and          surveying
integration                                                                                  masonry work
Strategy of change construction method to     Azhar et al.         Manual observations and   Formwork                     Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
increase productivity and reduce waste in     (2020)               statistical methods                                    applicable for a large construction site and
the private university buildings                                                                                          slow information flow
A study on 3D/BIM-based on-site               Cha and Kim          BIM and manual            Steel erection work          The data-capturing process of the proposed
performance measurement system for            (2020)               observation                                            system remains manual-based
building construction
Statistical methods applied to construction   Kubeckova and      Manual observations and   Plastering and masonry       Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
process management                            Smugala (2020)       statistical methods       work                         applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                                                          slow information flow
Identifying productive working patterns at    Mohanty et al.       Artificial neural         Movement and location        Accuracy tracking in the range of 5–10 m
construction sites using BLE sensor           (2020)               networks and Bluetooth    of workers                   (limited in range), tagged devices arises a
networks                                                           low energy                                             personal private issue and idle time could not
                                                                                                                          be recognized
Modelling block laying productivity on        Ouga et al. (2020)   Manual observations and   Masonry work                 Time-consuming, labor intensive, not
building sites in Kampala                                          statistical methods                                    applicable for a large construction site and
                                                                                                                          slow feedback for management
background clutter, occlusions and illumination variations in construction sites                    Productivity
(Konstantinou et al., 2019; Luo et al., 2018).                                                       monitoring
   Photogrammetry is a technique that combines photogrammetry and computer vision
algorithms to extract 3D geometries from a series of digital 2D images (Dering et al., 2019).
Photogrammetry integrated with BIM can be used to monitor reinforced concrete column
pouring (Omar et al., 2018) and excavation operations productivity (B€       ugler et al., 2017).
Although this technique can achieve a higher level of accuracy and considered as most
economical among other monitoring techniques (Mahami et al., 2019; Park et al., 2019), it is
affected by bad weather and poor visual conditions created by the occlusion led to higher
         ugler et al., 2017; Omar et al., 2018).
errors (B€
   Tools such as audio signals, bluetooth and smartphone sensors combining with machine
learning algorithms like ANN and SVM have been adopted by several studies to monitor the
productivity of construction activities like (formwork, fixing steel, concrete work, movement
and location of workers, machines activities and excavation operations) (Cheng et al., 2017;
El-Gohary et al., 2017; Golnaraghi et al., 2019; Heravi and Eslamdoost, 2015; Heydarian and
Golparvar-Fard, 2011; Mohanty et al., 2020, 2020; Nath et al., 2017). Although adopting these
tools with machine learning algorithms has enhanced their abilities to monitor construction
productivity and achieved a good performance, attention is still needed to focus on
addressing occlusions, the limited range for monitoring and personal privacy issues due to
tagged devices. The provided information should be detailed not just “productive” or
“unproductive” to help managers to make good decisions.
   The accelerometer-based method was used to monitor masonry activities and an
accuracy of 80% was obtained (Joshua and Varghese, 2011). Attaching wired
accelerometers to the worker will result in a limited movement of the worker due to the
weird sensors which should be attached to a laptop. Also, GPS has been used to monitor
excavation activities and a good accuracy level was obtained (Alshibani, 2018), but it is
limited to monitoring one excavator at a time. It is also assumed that the tracked trucks
have the same size, which may not always be correct. In such cases, more GPS receivers
should be mounted on all trucks on the site, which makes the proposed methodology
expensive. BIM is a digital tool known as a platform for central integrated design,
modeling, asset planning running and cooperation in the construction industry (Poljansek,
2018). Recently, there has been increasing attention for using BIM to stimulate
multifaceted transitions in aspects of construction management (Borrmann et al., 2018).
As researchers aim to accomplish a higher level in terms of automation in construction, the
applications of BIM have increased, almost BIM has been integrated with all the above-
mentioned methods (computer vision-based, machine learning, photogrammetry and
manual observations) (Arif and Khan, 2020; Cha and Kim, 2020; Heydarian and Golparvar-
Fard, 2011; Lee et al., 2014, 2017; Omar et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018) to monitor the
productivity of different construction activities.
   For the effective application of each of these methods on the job site, five key
performance measures should be satisfied (Sherafat et al., 2020): (1) accuracy, (2)
computational time, (3) required devices, (4) appropriate special, temporal and weather
conditions and (5) the range of activities it can cover. Also, nonintrusive for the workers
(privacy issues) and the applicability of indoor-outdoor should be taken into consideration
(Konstantinou et al., 2019).
   Table 3 provides a comparison of methods based on the selected studies. It can be
observed that traditional monitoring methods have covered all the activities of
construction sites. However, these methods have several limitations, such as time-
consuming, the time and effort required for data collecting, skilled workers required to
monitor and analyze productivity (labor-intensive), high expense and the slow flow of
information which makes it difficult to take effective decisions. Computer vision has
  Table 3.
                                                                                                                                                          ECAM




  productivity
  construction
  implemented
  Comparison of



  monitoring methods
                                                               Required devices,
                       Range      Weather      Computational   special                                              Testing
Method/ metrics        covered    conditions   time            requirements           Intrusiveness   Accuracy      environment   Monitored activities

Traditional            Wide       Affected     Slow            Skilled workers        Non             High          Indoor-       Formwork, Steelwork,
methods                range                                   doing the survey                                     outdoor       concrete work, masonry,
                                                                                                                                  screed, tiling, plastering,
                                                                                                                                  false ceiling, curtain wall,
                                                                                                                                  MEP and worker activities
Computer vision-       Within     Affected     Fast            Cameras                Non             High- above   Outdoor       Excavation, crane cycles,
based                  cameras                                                                        90%                         concrete work, hoisting,
                       view                                                                                                       formwork and excavation
                                                                                                                                  equipment
Photogrammetry         Within     Affected     Fast            Cameras                Non             High- above   Outdoor       Excavation operations
                       cameras                                                                        90%                         and reinforced column
                       view
Bluetooth low          range of   Not          Fast            BLE tags, receivers,   Intrusive       High within   Lap           Movement and location of
energy                 5–10 m     affected                     WIFI router and                        the covered                 workers
                                                               monitoring device                      range
                                                               (laptop)
Smartphone             Narrow     Not          Fast            Smartphone             Intrusive       80%           Lab           Worker movements
sensors                           affected                     sensors
GPS                    Wide       Not          Fast            GPS receivers          Intrusive       High          Outdoor       Excavation
                                  affected
Audio-based            One        Not          Fast            Microphone array       Non             80%–85%       Outdoor       Construction machines
                       machine    affected
Accelerometer-         Narrow     Not          Fast            Laptop mounted         Intrusive       80%           Lap           Masonry work
based                             affected                     with camera,
                                                               accelerometer
                                                               sensor
covered a wide range of activities, high accuracy, low cost and fast in extracting data.            Productivity
Computer vision depends heavily on fixed cameras mounted in the construction site which              monitoring
makes it limited to the view range of these cameras and the occlusion resulted from moving
objects and workers on the site. Photogrammetry also has achieved high accuracy, low
cost and fast information collecting and analyzing, but it is limited in view range due to the
usage of fixed cameras.
    Accelerometer-based, smartphone sensors and Bluetooth are low energy methods that can
cover a small range distance for monitoring. The high initial cost due to the required devices
and the tags mounted to the worker body make these methods intrusive, uncomfortable to the
worker and not applicable in large-scale projects. Although GPS can cover a wide outdoor
range distance for monitoring, its high cost due to the required devices, tags mounted to the
worker body make these methods intrusive and uncomfortable for the worker, and not
applicable in large-scale projects and indoor activities. Audio-based methods are applicable
only for construction machines that generate discrete sound patterns during their routine
operations and can analyze activities of a single machine, which makes it improper in
crowded sites.
    To overcome the limitations of each method, some researchers have integrated more than
one tool or technology to get a more effective monitoring method. Table 4 shows some of the
tools and technologies that have been integrated together and the monitored activities. For
instants, BIM is integrated with computer vision-based (Lee et al., 2014), photogrammetry
(Omar et al., 2018), manual observations (Arif and Khan, 2020; Cha and Kim, 2020; Lee et al.,
2017; Zhang et al., 2018) to monitor construction productivity for formwork, excavation,
columns, slab pouring, steel fixing and design activities. ANN has been integrated with
manual observations (Golnaraghi et al., 2019) to monitor the productivity for formwork, steel,
concrete pouring activities and also integrated with low energy bluetooth to monitor the
location of workers (Mohanty et al., 2020). SVM has been integrated with audio-based (Cheng
et al., 2017) to monitor the construction machines that make noises during their activities and
also integrated with smartphone sensors (Nath et al., 2017) to predict the productivity of
workers based on their ergonomic status. However, despite the values added by these studies,
most of them still at the proof-of-concept stage. These studies did not cover all complex
construction job sites and applied based on a small sample of construction workers and
machines separately. Also, the number of implemented tools for monitoring (e.g. tags or
cameras) was limited. Studies that cover the whole construction site with multiple machines
and workers working concurrently will serve to better understand the significance of these
studies in practice.

3.3 Conceptual framework
Based on the review of the selected studies, a conceptual framework was developed and
presented in Figure 8. This framework shows the connectivity of productivity monitoring
with productivity improvement, effective decisions and project success.
    The conceptual framework illustrates that the use of new technologies and tools for
monitoring productivity will result in an effective monitoring way. This will lead to collect the
data about the construction site accurately, effectively and in real-time which will help the
management to take effective decisions. Making effective decisions will lead to reduce costs,
timely corrective actions and reduce errors. All these items surely will increase the chance of
having successful projects. Having successful projects will enhance the firm’s
competitiveness advantages in the markets, develop the economy and achieve customer
satisfaction. Therefore, much attention is required to monitor construction productivity
effectively and using new techniques, which is linked directly to productivity improvements
and construction project success.
  Table 4.
                                                                                                                                               ECAM




  technologies and
  activities monitored
  The combined tools/
Tools/                                                                  Traditional                             Audio-                 Smartphone
Technologies             BIM              CV           Photogrammetry   methods          ANN         SVM        based      Bluetooth   sensors

BIM                      –                Formwork     Columns          Columns, slab,   –           –          –          –           –
                                          and                           steel, design
                                          excavation                    and masonry
CV                       Formwork         –            –                –                –           –          –          –           –
                         and
                         excavation
Photogrammetry           Columns          –                             –                –           –          –          –           –
Traditional              Columns, slab,   –            –                                 Formwork,   –          –          –           –
methods                  steel, design                                                   steel and
                         and masonry                                                     concrete
                                                                                         pouring
ANN                      –                –            –                Formwork,        –           –          –          Workers’    –
                                                                        steel and                                          location
                                                                        concrete
                                                                        pouring
SVM                      –                –            –                –                –                      Machines   –           Workers’
                                                                                                                                       movement
Audio-based              –                –            –                –                –           Machines   –          –           –
Bluetooth                –                –            –                –                Workers’    –          –          –           –
                                                                                         location
Smartphones              –                –            –                –                –           Workers’   –          –           –
Sensors                                                                                              movement
 Photogrammetry                                         Productivity
                                                                                                          Productivity
                                                       Improvement                                         monitoring
       ML


                                                                                          Successful
      BIM
                                                   Effective Productivity
                                                                                           Project
                      Automated
                      Monitoring                        Monitoring                        Completion
   Audio Based



  Tagged Studies

                                                         Effective
  Vision Based                                           Decisions



                                                         Timely
                                   Reduce Errors        Corrective          Reduce Cost                            Figure 8.
                                                         Actions                                       Conceptual framework




4. Conclusion
Productivity in the construction sector is used as a pointer to the consistency and
efficiency of construction firms. Selecting the most effective monitoring and measuring of
construction productivity methods is crucial for project success. The monitoring methods
can be divided into two major methods, traditional methods and automated methods.
Although traditional methods have several limitations, they were the most popular among
the selected studies. The second and the third popular in automated methods were
computer vision-based and photogrammetry; these techniques provide promising results
with high accuracy, fast information flow and low cost. But they depend heavily on fixed
cameras that make the range of view to be limited. Also, tagged technologies like (GPS,
smartphone sensors, bluetooth and accelerometer-based) were used to monitor the
productivity of equipment and workers’ activities. The main limitations of tagged
technologies were the limited cover range and intrusive issues due to the mounted tags on
the worker body. Although audio-based technologies were used to monitor productivity, it
is not applicable in crowded construction sites and not suitable for monitoring tools that do
not make a noise while performing various tasks like cranes. Machine learning algorithms
(ANN, SVM) and BIM were integrated with monitoring tools and technologies by
researchers to enhance the monitoring performance and to increase the automation in
monitoring construction productivity. Although the researchers made an effort in this
field, it was observed that the current studied techniques did not cover all complex
construction job site and were applied based on a small sample of construction workers,
operations and machines separately. Also, the number of implemented tools for
monitoring (e.g. tags or cameras) was limited. Future research may focus on monitoring
the whole construction site with multiple workers and machines working concurrently.
    This study can be considered to have certain limitations. This study covers only
productivity monitoring on building construction projects during the period from 2010 to
2020. However, the methods that have been used for monitoring productivity in other
construction projects like dams, tunnels and highway infrastructure were not investigated.
Besides, data were collected only from four different databases, i.e. WoS, Scopus,
ScienceDirect and ASCE. Therefore, due to the variation of information in the exported
ECAM   data from these databases, a few bibliometric analyses were not performed such as author co-
       citation analysis, journal analysis, institutional analysis, countries analysis, etc.


       5. Future research direction
       Although researchers made significant efforts for productivity monitoring, several
       challenges are still to overcome for maximum extraction of information, and a few are
       being highlighted in this study:
          (1) The major current practices for productivity monitoring are depending on traditional
              monitoring techniques which have a lot of limitations. It is beneficial to make more
              effort to adopt automated monitoring technologies to overcome the limitations of
              traditional methods.
          (2) Few studies made significant efforts in adopting automated productivity monitoring,
              but it was observed that the data-capturing process of the used systems remains
              manual-based. The construction job site is unsteady and changeful, and data
              measurement is time- and effort-consuming. Thus, a new technology for data capture
              and measurement will be very beneficial. for instance, considering drone technologies
              and image analyses, the systems would become more powerful and efficient (Cha and
              Kim, 2020).
          (3) The systems used for monitoring need more development to be implemented in the
              actual construction sites. Investigating the several limitations and factors that affect
              the quality, accuracy and effectiveness of each technique used for productivity
              monitoring will be necessary to enlarge the efficiency of monitoring in the
              construction sites.
          (4) Although the indoor activities represent a high-ranking part of any construction
              project, the average share of indoor activities in the total budget lies between 25% and
              40%, the available techniques for monitoring mostly deal with outdoor construction
              activities (Kropp et al., 2018). Therefore, the study of productivity monitoring of
              indoor activities like masonry, plastering, painting, doors and windows will be very
              valuable to enable the project managers to make effective decisions, which will result
              in cost savings and avoiding time overruns in construction projects.
          (5) The financial impact is one of the barriers to the successful implementation of
              traditional and automated monitoring techniques. So, for the significant performance
              of each technique, less expensive methodologies are to be promoted in the
              construction sites.
          (6) Each technique has its advantages and limitations. It is beneficial to integrate
              possible techniques to overcome the deficiencies of each one for maximum extraction
              of information.

       References
       Al-Sabaeei, A.M., Napiah, M.B., Sutanto, M.H., Alaloul, W.S. and Usman, A. (2020), “A systematic
             review of bio-asphalt for flexible pavement applications: coherent taxonomy, motivations,
             challenges and future directions”, Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 249, 119357, doi: 10.1016/j.
             jclepro.2019.119357.
       Alchaer, E. and Issa, C.A. (2020), “Engineering productivity measurement: a novel approach”, Journal
             of Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 146, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.
             0001875.
Alinaitwe Mwanaki, H. (2006), Labour Productivity in the Building Industry, Division of Construction           Productivity
      Management, Lund University, Lund.
                                                                                                                monitoring
Alshibani, A. (2018), “Automation of measuring actual productivity of earthwork in urban area, a case
      study from Montreal”, Buildings, Vol. 8, doi: 10.3390/buildings8120178.
Arif, F. and Khan, W.A. (2020), “A real-time productivity tracking framework using survey-cloud-BIM
       integration”, Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering, Vol. 45, pp. 8699-8710, doi: 10.1007/
       s13369-020-04844-5.
Ayele, S. and Fayek, A.R. (2019), “A framework for total productivity measurement of industrial
      construction projects”, Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering, Vol. 46, pp. 195-206.
Azhar, M., Hermawan, F. and Wibowo, M.A. (2020), “Strategy of change construction method to
      increase productivity and reduce waste in the private university buildings”, Presented at
      the IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science. doi: 10.1088/1755-1315/448/1/
      012118.
Bhatti, I.A., Abdullah, A.H., Nagapan, S., Bhatti, N.B., Lakhiar, M.T. and Mahar, M.M. (2019),
       “Building construction labour productivity in arid climate environment”, Journal of Applied
       Engineering Science, Vol. 9, pp. 125-130, doi: 10.2478/jaes-2019-0017.
Borrmann, A., K€onig, M., Koch, C. and Beetz, J. (2018), “Building information modeling: technology
     foundations and industry practice”, Building Information Modeling: Technology Foundations
     and Industry Practice, Springer International Publishing. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-92862-3.
Braun, A.B., Trentin, A.W.D.S., Visentin, C. and Thome, A. (2019), “Sustainable remediation through
     the risk management perspective and stakeholder involvement: a systematic and bibliometric
     view of the literature”, Environmental Pollution, Vol. 255, 113221, doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.
     113221.
 ugler, M., Borrmann, A., Ogunmakin, G., Vela, P.A. and Teizer, J. (2017), “Fusion of photogrammetry
B€
      and video analysis for productivity assessment of earthwork processes”, Computer-Aided Civil
      and Infrastructure Engineering, Vol. 32, pp. 107-123, doi: 10.1111/mice.12235.
Cha, H. and Kim, J. (2020), “A study on 3D/BIM-based on-site performance measurement system for
      building construction”, Journal of Asian Architecture and Building Engineering, Vol. 19,
      pp. 574-585, doi: 10.1080/13467581.2020.1763364.
Changali, S., Mohammad, A. and Nieuwland, M. (2015), “The construction productivity imperative”,
     Capital Project Infrastructure, available at: https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/
     operations/our-insights/the-construction-productivity-imperative.
Cheng, C.F., Rashidi, A., Davenport, M.A. and Anderson, D.V. (2017), “Activity analysis of
     construction equipment using audio signals and support vector machines”, Automation in
     Construction, Vol. 81, pp. 240-253, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2017.06.005.
Chui, K.W., Shields, D. and Bai, Y. (2012), “On-site labor productivity measurement for sustainable
      construction”, Presented at the ICSDC 2011: Integrating Sustainability Practices in the
      Construction Industry - Proceedings of the International Conference on Sustainable Design and
      Construction 2011, pp. 335-343, doi: 10.1061/41204(426)42.
Dai, J., Goodrum, P.M., Maloney, W.F. and Srinivasan, C. (2009), “Latent structures of the factors
       affecting construction labor productivity”, Journal of Construction Engineering and
       Management, Vol. 135, pp. 397-406, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)0733-9364(2009)135:5(397).
de Oliveira, O.J., de, da Silva, F.F., Juliani, F., Barbosa, L.C.F.M. and Nunhes, T.V. (2019), “Bibliometric
      method for mapping the state-of-the-art and identifying research gaps and trends in literature:
      an essential instrument to support the development of scientific projects”, Scientometrics Recent
      Advances, IntechOpen. doi: 10.5772/intechopen.85856.
Dering, G.M., Micklethwaite, S., Thiele, S.T., Vollgger, S.A. and Cruden, A.R. (2019), “Review of
      drones, photogrammetry and emerging sensor technology for the study of dykes: best
      practises and future potential”, Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research, Vol. 373,
      pp. 148-166, doi: 10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2019.01.018.
ECAM   Dixit, S., Pandey, A.K., Mandal, S.N. and Bansal, S. (2017), “A study of enabling factors affecting
              construction productivity: Indian scnerio”, International Journal of Civil Engineering and
              Technology, Vol. 8, pp. 741-758.
       Dixit, S., Mandal, S.N., Thanikal, J.V. and Saurabh, K. (2019), “Evolution of studies in construction
              productivity: a systematic literature review (2006–2017)”, Ain Shams Engineering Journal,
              Vol. 10, pp. 555-564, doi: 10.1016/j.asej.2018.10.010.
       Durdyev, S. and Mbachu, J. (2018), “Key constraints to labour productivity in residential building projects:
            evidence from Cambodia”, International Journal of Construction Management, Vol. 18, pp. 385-393.
       El-Gohary, K.M., Aziz, R.F. and Abdel-Khalek, H.A. (2017), “Engineering approach using ANN to
             improve and predict construction labor productivity under different influences”, Journal of
             Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 143, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001340.
       El-Omari, S. and Moselhi, O. (2011), “Integrating automated data acquisition technologies for progress
            reporting of construction projects”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 20, pp. 699-705, doi: 10.
            1016/j.autcon.2010.12.001.
       Florez, L. and Cortissoz, J.C. (2017), “Using workers compatibility to predict labor productivity
              through cluster analysis”, Presented at the Procedia Engineering, pp. 359-365, doi: 10.1016/j.
              proeng.2017.07.211.
       Forsythe, P.J. and Sepasgozar, S.M.E. (2019), “Measuring installation productivity in prefabricated
             timber construction”, Engineering Construction and Architectural Management, Vol. 26 No. 4,
             pp. 578-598, doi: 10.1108/ECAM-09-2017-0205.
       Golnaraghi, S., Zangenehmadar, Z., Moselhi, O. and Alkass, S. (2019), “Application of artificial neural
             network(s) in predicting formwork labour productivity”, Advances in Civil Engineering,
             Vol. 2019, 5972620, doi: 10.1155/2019/5972620.
       Gong, J. and Caldas, C.H. (2011), “An object recognition, tracking, and contextual reasoning-based
             video interpretation method for rapid productivity analysis of construction operations”,
             Automation in Construction, Vol. 20, pp. 1211-1226, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2011.05.005.
       Gouett, M.C., Haas, C.T., Goodrum, P.M. and Caldas, C.H. (2011), “Activity analysis for direct-work
             rate improvement in construction”, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management,
             Vol. 137, pp. 1117-1124, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0000375.
       Green, B. (2016), Productivity in Construction: Creating a Framework for the Industry to Thrive, Chart.
             Inst. Build, Bracknell.
       Gunduz, M. and Abu-Hijleh, A. (2020), “Assessment of human productivity drivers for construction
            labor through importance rating and risk mapping”, Sustainable Switzerland, Vol. 12, pp. 1-18,
            doi: 10.3390/su12208614.
       Han, S., Ko, Y.H., Hong, T., Koo, C. and Lee, S. (2017), “Framework for the validation of simulation-
             based productivity analysis: focused on curtain wall construction process”, Journal of Civil
             Engineering and Management, Vol. 23, pp. 163-172, doi: 10.3846/13923730.2014.992468.
       Hasan, A., Baroudi, B., Elmualim, A. and Rameezdeen, R. (2018), “Factors affecting construction
            productivity: a 30 year systematic review”, Engineering Construction and Architectural
            Management, Vol. 25, pp. 916-937, doi: 10.1108/ECAM-02-2017-0035.
       Heravi, G. and Eslamdoost, E. (2015), “Applying artificial neural networks for measuring and
             predicting construction-labor productivity”, Journal of Construction Engineering and
             Management, Vol. 141, 04015032, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001006.
       Heydarisian, A. and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2011), “A visual monitoring framework for integrated
            productivity and carbon footprint control of construction operations”, Presented at the
            Congress on Computing in Civil Engineering, Proceedings, pp. 504-511, doi: 10.1061/
            41182(416)62.
       Hwang, S. (2010), “Cross-validation of short-term productivity forecasting methodologies”, Journal of
           Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 136, pp. 1037-1046, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.
           1943-7862.0000230.
Joshua, L. and Varghese, K. (2011), “Accelerometer-based activity recognition in construction”, Journal    Productivity
      of Computing in Civil Engineering, Vol. 25, pp. 370-379, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.
      0000097.                                                                                              monitoring
Khosrowpour, A., Niebles, J.C. and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2014), “Vision-based workface assessment
     using depth images for activity analysis of interior construction operations”, Automation in
     Construction, Vol. 48, pp. 74-87, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2014.08.003.
Kim, H. and Kim, H. (2018), “3D reconstruction of a concrete mixer truck for training object detectors”,
      Automation in Construction, Vol. 88, pp. 23-30, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2017.12.034.
Kimoto, K., Endo, K., Iwashita, S. and Fujiwara, M. (2005), “The application of PDA as mobile computing
     system on construction management”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 14, pp. 500-511.
Ko, Y. and Han, S. (2015), “Development of construction performance monitoring methodology using
      the bayesian probabilistic approach”, Journal of Asian Architecture and Building Engineering,
      Vol. 14, pp. 73-80, doi: 10.3130/jaabe.14.73.
Konstantinou, E. and Brilakis, I. (2016), “3D matching of resource vision tracking trajectories”,
     Presented at the Construction Research Congress 2016: Old and New Construction Technologies
     Converge in Historic San Juan - Proceedings of the 2016 Construction Research Congress, 2016,
     CRC, pp. 1742-1752, doi: 10.1061/9780784479827.174.
Konstantinou, E., Lasenby, J. and Brilakis, I. (2019), “Adaptive computer vision-based 2D tracking
     of workers in complex environments”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 103, pp. 168-184,
     doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2019.01.018.
Kopsida, M., Brilakis, I. and Vela, P.A. (2015), “A review of automated construction progress
      monitoring and inspection methods”, Proceedings of the 32nd CIB W78 Conference 2015,
      pp. 421-431.
Kropp, C., Koch, C. and K€onig, M. (2018), “Interior construction state recognition with 4D BIM
     registered image sequences”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 86, pp. 11-32, doi: 10.1016/j.
     autcon.2017.10.027.
Kubeckova, D. and Smugala, S. (2020), “Statistical methods applied to construction process
      management”, Asian Journal of Civil Engineering, Vol. 21, pp. 479-494, doi: 10.1007/s42107-020-
      00221-7.
Langroodi, A.K., Vahdatikhaki, F. and Doree, A. (2021), “Activity recognition of construction
     equipment using fractional random forest”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 122, doi: 10.1016/j.
     autcon.2020.103465.
Lee, C., Son, J. and Lee, S. (2014), “A system model for analyzing and accumulating construction work
       crew’s roductivity data using image processing technologies”, Journal of Asian Architecture
       and Building Engineering, Vol. 13, pp. 547-554, doi: 10.3130/jaabe.13.547.
Lee, J., Park, Y.J., Choi, C.H. and Han, C.H. (2017), “BIM-assisted labor productivity measurement
       method for structural formwork”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 84, pp. 121-132, doi: 10.1016/
       j.autcon.2017.08.009.
Lim, K.W. and Buntine, W. (2016), “Bibliographic analysis on research publications using authors,
      categorical labels and the citation network”, Machine Learning, Vol. 103, pp. 185-213, doi: 10.
      1007/s10994-016-5554-z.
Liu, K. and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2015), “Crowdsourcing construction activity analysis from jobsite
      video streams”, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 141, doi: 10.1061/
      (ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001010.
Luo, H., Xiong, C., Fang, W., Love, P.E.D., Zhang, B. and Ouyang, X. (2018), “Convolutional neural
      networks: computer vision-based workforce activity assessment in construction”, Automation
      in Construction, Vol. 94, pp. 282-289, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2018.06.007.
Mahami, H., Nasirzadeh, F., Ahmadabadian, A.H., Esmaeili, F. and Nahavandi, S. (2019), “Imaging
    network design to improve the automated construction progress monitoring process”,
    Construction Innovation, Vol. 19 No. 3, pp. 386-404, doi: 10.1108/CI-07-2018-0059.
ECAM   Mahamid, I. (2013), “Contractors perspective toward factors affecting labor productivity in building
           construction”, Engineering Construction and Architectural Management, Vol. 20, pp. 446-460,
           doi: 10.1108/ECAM-08-2011-0074.
       Mao, C., Gao, Y., Liu, G., K€onig, M. and Hong, J. (2018), “Using wearable devices to explore the
            relationship among the work productivity, psychological state, and physical status of
            construction workers”, Presented at the ISARC 2018 - 35th International Symposium on
            Automation and Robotics in Construction and International AEC/FM Hackathon: The Future of
            Building Things. doi: 10.22260/isarc2018/0163.
       Marzuki, P.F., Permadi, H. and Sunaryo, I. (2012), “Factors affecting job satisfaction of workers in
            Indonesian construction companies”, Journal of Civil Engineering and Management, Vol. 18,
            pp. 299-309, doi: 10.3846/13923730.2012.698889.
       Mine, N., Wai, S.H. and Lim, T.C. (2015), “An observational study of the productivity of formwork in
             building construction”, Presented at the ISEC 2015 - 8th International Structural Engineering
             and Construction Conference: Implementing Innovative Ideas in Structural Engineering and
             Project Management, pp. 1127-1132, doi: 10.14455/isec.res.2015.207.
       Mohanty, L., Chae, S. and Yang, Y. (2020), “Identifying productive working patterns at construction
            sites using BLE sensor networks”, Developments in the Built Environment, Vol. 4, 100025, doi:
            10.1016/j.dibe.2020.100025.
       Moher, D., Liberati, A., Tetzlaff, J. and Altman, D.G. (2009), “Reprint-Preferred Reporting items for
            systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement”, Physical Therapy, Vol. 89,
            pp. 873-880, doi: 10.1093/ptj/89.9.873.
       Moher, D., Shamseer, L., Clarke, M., Ghersi, D., Liberati, A., Petticrew, M., Shekelle, P., Stewart, L.A.,
            PRISMA-P, G., Altman, D.G., Booth, A., Chan, A.W., Chang, S., Clifford, T., Dickersin, K., Egger,
            M., Gøtzsche, P.C., Grimshaw, J.M., Groves, T., Helfand, M., Higgins, J., Lasserson, T., Lau, J.,
            Lohr, K., McGowan, J., Mulrow, C., Norton, M., Page, M., Sampson, M., Sch€   unemann, H., Simera,
            I., Summerskill, W., Tetzlaff, J., Trikalinos, T.A., Tovey, D., Turner, L. and Whitlock, E. (2015),
            “Preferred reporting items for systematic review and meta-analysis protocols (PRISMA-P) 2015
            statement”, Systematic Reviews, Vol. 4, doi: 10.1186/2046-4053-4-1.
       Naoum, S. (2015), “Productivity in construction projects”, Design Economics for the Built Environment,
            John Wiley & Sons, pp. 93-106, doi: 10.1002/9781118944790.ch7.
       Nath, N.D., Akhavian, R. and Behzadan, A.H. (2017), “Ergonomic analysis of construction worker’s
             body postures using wearable mobile sensors”, Applied Ergonomics, Vol. 62, pp. 107-117,
             doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2017.02.007.
       Navon, R. and Sacks, R. (2007), “Assessing research issues in automated project performance
            control (APPC)”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 16, pp. 474-484, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2006.
            08.001.
       Omar, H., Mahdjoubi, L. and Kheder, G. (2018), “Towards an automated photogrammetry-based
            approach for monitoring and controlling construction site activities”, Computers in Industry,
            Vol. 98, pp. 172-182, doi: 10.1016/j.compind.2018.03.012.
       Ouga, A.D., Alinaitwe, H.M. and Mwesige, G. (2020), “Modelling block laying productivity on
            building sites in Kampala”, Journal of Construction in Developing Countries, Vol. 25,
            pp. 109-128, doi: 10.21315/jcdc2020.25.1.6.
       Palikhe, S., Kim, S. and Kim, J.J. (2019), “Critical success factors and dynamic modeling of
             construction labour productivity”, International Journal of Civil Engineering, Vol. 17,
             pp. 427-442, doi: 10.1007/s40999-018-0282-3.
       Park, S., Lee, H. and Chon, J. (2019), “Sustainable monitoring coverage of unmanned aerial vehicle
             photogrammetry according to wing type and image resolution”, Environmental Pollution,
             Vol. 247, pp. 340-348, doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2018.08.050.
       Petrov, I. and Hakimov, A. (2019), “Digital technologies in construction monitoring and
             construction control”, IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, Vol. 497,
             012016, doi: 10.1088/1757-899X/497/1/012016.
Poljansek, M. (2018), Building Information Modelling (BIM) standardization - Publications Office of the    Productivity
      EU, available at: https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/9d5c02b3-00ba-
      11e8b8f5-01aa75ed71a1/language-en.                                                                    monitoring
Pradhan, A., Akinci, B. and Haas, C.T. (2011), “Formalisms for query capture and data source
     identification to support data fusion for construction productivity monitoring”, Automation in
     Construction, Vol. 20, pp. 389-398, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2010.11.009.
Princy, J.D. and Shanmugapriya, S. (2017), “A probabilistic Fuzzy logic approach to identify
      productivity factors in Indian construction projects”, Journal of Construction Engineering and
      Management, Vol. 7, pp. 39-55, doi: 10.6106/JCEPM.2017.9.29.039.
Ramirez Lopez, L.J. and Grijalba Castro, A.I. (2021), “Sustainability and resilience in smart city
     planning: a review”, Sustainability, Vol. 13, p. 181, doi: 10.3390/su13010181.
Ren, X., Zhu, Z., Germain, C., Belair, R. and Chen, Z. (2017), “Automated monitoring of the utilization
      rate of onsite construction equipment”, Congress on Computing in Civil Engineering,
      Proceedings, 2017-June, pp. 74-81, doi: 10.1061/9780784480830.010.
Sabet, P. and Chong, H.Y. (2018), “A conceptual hybrid OSM-BIM framework to improve
      construction project performance”, Building Professionals for the Future in the Globalised
      World, Vol. 1, pp. 204-213.
Sabet, P.G.P. and Chong, H.Y. (2020), “Pathways for the improvement of construction productivity: a
       perspective on the adoption of advanced techniques”, Advances in Civil Engineering, Vol. 2020,
       doi: 10.1155/2020/5170759.
Sherafat, B., Ahn, C.R., Akhavian, R., Behzadan, A.H., Golparvar-Fard, M., Kim, H., Lee, Y.C., Rashidi,
      A. and Azar, E.R. (2020), “Automated methods for activity recognition of construction workers
      and equipment: state-of-the-art review”, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management,
      Vol. 146, 03120002, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0001843.
Solem, J.E. (2012), Programming Computer Vision with Python: Tools and Algorithms for Analyzing
      Images, O’Reilly Media, Sebastopol, CA.
Son, H., Bosche, F. and Kim, C. (2015), “As-built data acquisition and its use in production monitoring
      and automated layout of civil infrastructure: a survey”, Advanced Engineering Informatics,
      Infrastructure Computer Vision, Vol. 29, pp. 172-183, doi: 10.1016/j.aei.2015.01.009.
Su, H.N. and Lee, P.C. (2010), “Mapping knowledge structure by keyword co-occurrence: a first look at
      journal papers in Technology Foresight”, Scientometrics, Vol. 85, pp. 65-79, doi: 10.1007/s11192-
      010-0259-8.
Teicholz, P.M. (2013), “Labor-productivity declines in the construction industry: causes and remedies
      (a second look)”, AECbytes Viewpoint, Vol. 67, p. 14.
Vahdatikhaki, F., Hammad, A. and Siddiqui, H. (2015), “Optimization-based excavator pose estimation
     using real-time location systems”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 56, pp. 76-92, doi: 10.1016/j.
     autcon.2015.03.006.
van Eck, N.J. and Waltman, L. (2010), “Software survey: VOSviewer, a computer program for
     bibliometric mapping”, Scientometrics, Vol. 84, pp. 523-538, doi: 10.1007/s11192-009-0146-3.
Van Tam, N., Quoc Toan, N., Tuan Hai, D. and Le Dinh Quy, N. (2021), “Critical factors affecting
     construction labor productivity: a comparison between perceptions of project managers and
     contractors”, Cogent Business & Management, Vol. 8, 1863303.
Xia, N., Xie, Q., Griffin, M.A., Ye, G. and Yuan, J. (2020), “Antecedents of safety behavior in
      construction: a literature review and an integrated conceptual framework”, Accident Analysis
      and Prevention, Vol. 148, doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2020.105834.
Yang, J., Park, M.-W., Vela, P.A. and Golparvar-Fard, M. (2015), “Construction performance
     monitoring via still images, time-lapse photos, and video streams: now, tomorrow, and
     the future”, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Vol. 29, pp. 211-224, doi: 10.1016/j.aei.2015.
     01.011.
ECAM   Zhang, X., Bakis, N., Lukins, T.C., Ibrahim, Y.M., Wu, S., Kagioglou, M., Aouad, G., Kaka, A.P. and
            Trucco, E. (2009), “Automating progress measurement of construction projects”, Automation in
            Construction, Vol. 18, pp. 294-301, doi: 10.1016/j.autcon.2008.09.004.
       Zhang, M., Cao, T. and Zhao, X. (2017), “Applying sensor-based technology to improve construction
            safety management”, Sensors, Vol. 17, p. 1841.
       Zhang, L., Wen, M. and Ashuri, B. (2018), “BIM log mining: measuring design productivity”, Journal of
            Computing in Civil Engineering, Vol. 32, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.0000721.
       Zhu, Z., Ren, X. and Chen, Z. (2016), “Visual tracking of construction jobsite workforce and equipment
             with particle filtering”, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, Vol. 30, doi: 10.1061/(ASCE)
             CP.1943-5487.0000573.
                     
       Zupic, I. and Cater, T. (2015), “Bibliometric methods in management and organization”, Organizational
             Research Methods, Vol. 18, pp. 429-472.


       Corresponding author
       Wesam Salah Alaloul can be contacted at: wesam.alaloul@utp.edu.my




       For instructions on how to order reprints of this article, please visit our website:
       www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/licensing/reprints.htm
       Or contact us for further details: permissions@emeraldinsight.com
